docs(hybrid) documentation for 2.0 Hybrid Mode deployment (#1670)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/2.0.x/hybrid-mode.md

---
title: Hybrid Mode Deployment
---

## Introduction

Traditionally, Kong has always required a database, which could be either
Postgres or Cassandra, to store its configured entities such as Routes,
Services and Plugins. In Kong 1.1 we added the capability to run Kong without
a database, using only in-memory storage for entities: we call this **DB-less mode**.

In Kong 2.0, we introduced a new method of deploying Kong which is
called the **Hybrid mode**, also known as **Control Plane / Data Plane Separation (CP/DP)**.

> In this mode Kong nodes in a cluster are separated into two roles: Control Plane (CP), where configuration is stored and the Admin API is served

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode Kong nodes in a cluster are separated into two roles: Control Plane (CP), where configuration is managed and the Admin API is served from,
```

and Data Plane (DP). Each DP is connected to one of the CP. Instead of accessing the
database contents directly in the traditional deployment method, the DP nodes maintains

> connection with CP nodes and receives the latest configuration from the DP nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection with CP nodes, and receives the latest configuration.
```

Deploying using Hybrid mode has a number of benefits:

> * Reduce the amount of traffic on the database, since only CP needs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Drastically reduce the amount of traffic on the database, since only CP nodes need a
```

  direct connection to the database.

> * Increased security, in an event one of the DP node got intruded, attacker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Increased security, in an event where one of the DP nodes gets intruded, an attacker
```

  won't be able to affect other nodes in the Kong cluster.

> * Easiness of management, since admin only need to interact with the CP to control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Easiness of management, since an admin will only need to interact with the CP nodes to control
```
